[Music]
well hi there hey what you waiting for
the clock is ticking here are 13 crucial
things you need to learn by the age of
30 you know many people say life starts
after 30 I guess the other 29 years are
out warm up or something huh
anyway H 30 is when we finally get a
feeling of awareness and independence
and understand our aspirations and true
wishes however in order to make your
dreams come true and get the maximum
success in all spheres of life it's
worth learning some necessary things
don't miss our bonus at the end but
first get the subscription button and
ring the notification valve to join us
on the bright side of life
so here's number one find a job that you
enjoy having graduated from a university
we've experimented with changing jobs
working offices salaries and professions
but by the age of 30 it's quite
important to find the very job that will
bring you satisfaction where you'll
strive for more development and climb up
the career ladder number 2 learn to cook
your signature dish you can either hate
cooking or know all of Gordon Ramsay's
recipes by heart but either way you need
to have a dish that you'll cook better
than anyone else it should be a main
course having a signature dessert is
optional experiment and don't be afraid
to add new features to your dish in
order to master this skill having a
signature dish provides you with
confidence when faced with important
visitors to your home number 3
understand who your true friends are
when we're young we're surrounded by
many people and easily get new
acquaintances very often we mistakenly
think that they are all our friends
however after some time they disappear
and only true friends stay close to us
those who will help you when you feel
blue and those who will rejoice about
your success with you
appreciate the people who have stood the
test of time and don't stick to just
anyone around you number four stop
telling everyone the details of your
personal life you got to keep in mind
that if you want to keep your
relationship strong you shouldn't tell
everyone about the issues you and your
partner are facing if you feel an urge
to do so and you want to share your
worries with someone visit a
psychotherapist a professional will
listen to you carefully and will help to
analyze both you and your partner's
actions all these things will give you
the opportunity to look at yourself not
only from a position of a victim but
you'll also notice your own weaknesses
and as a result you'll find the right
way out of the given situation number
five
prioritize correctly we always seem to
hurry through life trying to do as many
things as possible but after some time
we understand that we're focusing on
small things and neglecting important
ones usually it's trips and time spent
with family that we remember no one
remembers how they had to do overtime in
the office on a Friday evening so it's
important to learn how to prioritize and
to do what you really want as often as
possible
number six find money and time for
vacation a lack of rest leads to moral
and physical exhaustion and reduces your
overall level of efficiency that's why
it's better to spend money not on the
latest smartphone model but on a desert
vacation having rested fully you'll be
able to reload and make more make a rule
to save twenty percent of your salary
for a future vacation number seven get a
driver's license see getting a driver's
license motivates you for further
actions once you get it you'll start
thinking about buying a car and
therefore will increase the level of
your income it's easier to travel having
a driver's license you can always rent a
car when going abroad and will be able
to see even more sights number
range provide yourself with extra income
make sure that you have an extra source
of income by the age of 30 it can be
freelancing some passive income or your
own business even working one of the
most stable companies in your city can't
guarantee you a stable future that's why
it's necessary to provide yourself with
an extra source of income so that you
can handle any critical situation number
9 move out of your parents house they'll
thank you for it it's very convenient to
live with your parents your home is
always clean and there is always some
food ready and waiting for you on the
stove however sooner or later you need
to make the decision to move out of your
parents home and it's better to do it by
age 30 it will help you learn to plan
your budget taking into account the
expenses you probably didn't know about
before for example payments for communal
services and other small things like
detergent etc number 10 learn to give
speeches in public now many of us feel
awkward when there is a necessity to
give a public speech to stand up for
your point of view
or to simply talk to a stranger learn to
overcome your fears a person who always
stays calm and doesn't use parasite
words is received with respect and
attention being able to talk nicely
you'll get rid of insecurities be able
to present your project successfully
persuade your boss and increasing your
salary and can stop any kind of debate
or a conflict beneficially number 11
find your style an adult person should
have their own personal style that makes
them feel comfortable having found your
personal style you'll forget about the
eternal problem of choosing what clothes
to wear all because you already know
what clothes to choose to outline your
personality and uniqueness
moreover knowing your style will help
you easily choose new clothes that will
match the rest of your wardrobe keep in
mind that it's your appearance that
makes the first impression about you
which is why it's very important to feel
comfortable with it
number twelve read classical literature
now we learn classical literature in
school but due to our young age we
couldn't realize the real depth of those
stories that's why we shouldn't be lazy
and we should reread all those famous
classical novels we're sure that you'll
perceive them differently you'll notice
more details hidden hints and even
connections with today's world moreover
you'll increase your cultural awareness
your speech will get enriched and you
will be able to support an interesting
conversation number thirteen get
yourself in good shape we can easily do
without physical exercises up to a
certain age even eating chips late at
night won't affect our body shape
however overall muscle tone decreases
over time and the metabolism slows down
that's why if you don't want to end up
spending your free time sitting on a
bench at age 50 you should get in the
habit of doing sports your weekly
schedule should include physical
activity that will help you stay in a
good shape and be healthy and here's a
bonus how to become happier well
actually there is no such concept as the
happiest age we can be equally happy at
any time here are 4 simple steps to keep
the level of happiness at a maximum
level spend 10 to 15 minutes each day in
silence unplug from everything phones
laptops work etc refuse your bad habits
and desires they take too much of your
energy surround yourself with positive
people and get yourself a clean home a
messy home creates a messy MA so there
you have it is there anything else that
we've forgotten to add to this list
please tell us about it in the comments
hey remember to give us a thumbs up
share this video with your friends and
hit subscribe to join us on the bright
side of life
[Music]